---
title: "Bre With Azfunc Rules Engine"
date: 2022-10-23T20:42:48+05:30
draft: true

---

The Banking, Financial Services and Insurance market players are generally bound by strict regulatory requirements. These players may need to make changes to their products, operating models based upon the changing regualations by the authorities. On the ther other side, with every growing competition in the market is forcing the players to provide compititive pricing and launch new products which cater to changing consumer requirements. All of these changes either forced by the regulators or the market, demand that these organizations be very agile while making decisions while offering the products. These decisions are generally the actions of the some of the business rules that are run on the data being processed. Most of the times, these rules are implemented using the imperative programming model thus involving loops, sequential conditional evaluations as such. Adopting such imperative model can be good for smaller applications, but can limit the agility of the software release when the number of business rules in an application is very large. The main problem stems from the fact that the business rules are tightly coupled to the evaluation engine and a deployment will be needed every time a small change is made. This problem can still be tackled by having a robhust continuous delivery process in place, but that is a dicussion for another day. Another glaring problem with this approach is the sheer number of lines of codes we have to write and the maintainance cost that come with it. So what is an alternative to this imperative way of programming? In comes business rules engine. Business Rules Engine or BRE presents an alternative way of programming rules using the condition and action paradigm. Each condition when evaluated to true will produce certain side effects. This approach presents advantage in the fact that the business rules can be decoupled from the engine or service implementation. Ruless when coded using BRE are also easier to read and maintain.